interop-tests/README.md, before:

# Interop tests implementation

This folder defines the implementation for the interop tests.

# Running this test locally

You can run this test locally by having a local Redis instance and by having
another peer that this test can dial or listen for. For example to test that we
can dial/listen for ourselves we can do the following:

1. Start redis (needed by the tests): `docker run --rm -it -p 6379:6379
   redis/redis-stack`.
2. In one terminal run the dialer: `REDIS_ADDR=localhost:6379 ip="0.0.0.0"
   transport=quic-v1 security=quic muxer=quic is_dialer="true" cargo run --bin ping`
3. In another terminal, run the listener: `REDIS_ADDR=localhost:6379
   ip="0.0.0.0" transport=quic-v1 security=quic muxer=quic is_dialer="false" cargo run --bin ping`


To test the interop with other versions do something similar, except replace one
of these nodes with the other version's interop test.

# Running all interop tests locally with Compose

To run this test against all released libp2p versions you'll need to have the
(libp2p/test-plans)[https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans] checked out. Then do
the following (from the root directory of this repository):

1. Build the image: `docker build -t rust-libp2p-head . -f interop-tests/Dockerfile`.
1. Build the images for all released versions in `libp2p/test-plans`: `(cd <path to >/libp2p/test-plans/multidim-interop/ && make)`.
1. Run the test:
```
RUST_LIBP2P="$PWD"; (cd <path to >/libp2p/test-plans/multidim-interop/ && npm run test -- --extra-version=$RUST_LIBP2P/interop-tests/ping-version.json --name-filter="rust-libp2p-head")
```

Commit message:

feat(webtransport): add WebTransport for WASM environments
This PR implements `Transport` for WebTransport for browsers by using web-sys.

Related: #3846.
Resolves: #3825.

Pull-Request: #4015.


  
Co-Authored-By: Yiannis Marangos <yiannis@eiger.co>
  

  
Co-Authored-By: Maciej Zwoliński <mac.zwolinski@gmail.com>
  

  
Co-Authored-By: Yiannis Marangos <psyberbits@gmail.com>

interop-tests/README.md, after:

# Interop tests implementation

This folder defines the implementation for the interop tests.

# Running this test locally

You can run this test locally by having a local Redis instance and by having
another peer that this test can dial or listen for. For example to test that we
can dial/listen for ourselves we can do the following:

1. Start redis (needed by the tests): `docker run --rm -it -p 6379:6379
   redis/redis-stack`.
2. In one terminal run the dialer: `redis_addr=localhost:6379 ip="0.0.0.0"
   transport=quic-v1 security=quic muxer=quic is_dialer="true" cargo run --bin ping`
3. In another terminal, run the listener: `redis_addr=localhost:6379
   ip="0.0.0.0" transport=quic-v1 security=quic muxer=quic is_dialer="false" cargo run --bin native_ping`


To test the interop with other versions do something similar, except replace one
of these nodes with the other version's interop test.

# Running this test with webtransport dialer in browser

To run the webtransport test from within the browser, you'll need the
`chromedriver` in your `$PATH`, compatible with your Chrome browser.
Firefox is not yet supported as it doesn't support all required features yet
(in v114 there is no support for certhashes).

1. Build the wasm package: `wasm-pack build --target web`
2. Run the dialer: `redis_addr=127.0.0.1:6379 ip=0.0.0.0 transport=webtransport is_dialer=true cargo run --bin wasm_ping`

# Running all interop tests locally with Compose

To run this test against all released libp2p versions you'll need to have the
(libp2p/test-plans)[https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans] checked out. Then do
the following (from the root directory of this repository):

1. Build the image: `docker build -t rust-libp2p-head . -f interop-tests/Dockerfile`.
1. Build the images for all released versions in `libp2p/test-plans`: `(cd <path to >/libp2p/test-plans/multidim-interop/ && make)`.
1. Run the test:
```
RUST_LIBP2P="$PWD"; (cd <path to >/libp2p/test-plans/multidim-interop/ && npm run test -- --extra-version=$RUST_LIBP2P/interop-tests/ping-version.json --name-filter="rust-libp2p-head")
```
