.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug Report
about: Create a bug report for rust-libp2p.
---

<!-- Thank you for filing a bug report! -->

<!-- For security related issues please reach out to security@ipfs.io. Please do not file a public issue on GitHub. -->

## Summary

<!--
Please provide a short summary of the bug, along with any information you feel relevant to replicate the bug.
-->

## Expected behaviour

<!-- Describe what you expect to happen.-->

## Actual behaviour

<!-- Describe what actually happens.-->

<!--
Include debug output in the code block by setting `RUST_LOG=debug` in your environment.
-->
<details><summary>Debug Output</summary>
<p>

```
<output>
```
</p>
</details>

## Possible Solution
<!--- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, or ideas how to implement the addition or change. -->

## Version
<!--
Which version of libp2p are you using?
-->

- libp2p version (version number, commit, or branch):


## Would you like to work on fixing this bug?

<!--Any contribution towards fixing the bug is greatly appreciated.
We are more than happy to provide help on the process.-->

Yes / No / Maybe.

Commit message:

.github/: Fix config.yml file name & add note for logger (#2633)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug Report
about: Create a bug report for rust-libp2p.
---

<!-- Thank you for filing a bug report! -->

<!-- For security related issues please reach out to security@ipfs.io. Please do not file a public issue on GitHub. -->

## Summary

<!--
Please provide a short summary of the bug, along with any information you feel relevant to replicate the bug.
-->

## Expected behaviour

<!-- Describe what you expect to happen.-->

## Actual behaviour

<!-- Describe what actually happens.-->

<!--
Include debug output in the code block by setting `RUST_LOG=debug` in your environment.
Note that for this a logger implementation needs to be initialized in the program, e.g. with
`env_logger::init()`. See <https://docs.rs/log> for more info.
-->
<details><summary>Debug Output</summary>
<p>

```
<output>
```
</p>
</details>

## Possible Solution
<!--- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, or ideas how to implement the addition or change. -->

## Version
<!--
Which version of libp2p are you using?
-->

- libp2p version (version number, commit, or branch):


## Would you like to work on fixing this bug?

<!--Any contribution towards fixing the bug is greatly appreciated.
We are more than happy to provide help on the process.-->

Yes / No / Maybe.
